Title: Razorfish Transforms Brand Experiences with New Engagement-Based Loyalty Offering

----

Subtitle: Positions strengths in customer consulting and loyalty marketing as foundation of growth strategy to increase customer lifetime value and brand advocacy for clients

----

Location: New York

----

Date: 2016-09-15

----

Text:

Razorfish, the world leader in helping global brands drive (link: http://www.razorfish.com text: customer obsessed business transformation target: _blank), today unveiled a new way for clients to identify, implement and optimize meaningful interactions that create customer engagement across the post-purchase buyer journey. The launch of the offering, Engagement-Based Loyalty, further positions the agency to help its clients meet the needs of today’s radically empowered consumers. 

“The way organizations create value has fundamentally changed, and our clients need transformative, integrated partners that can bring strategy and consulting, innovative experiences and intelligent platforms under one roof to help acquire new customers and create deeply engaging experiences,” said Shannon Denton, chief executive officer, Razorfish. “Building on the synergies that have historically existed between Razorfish and Rosetta, we are now transforming our own business to better deliver on the needs of our clients in a way that’s unmatched by any other provider.” 

Channeling Rosetta’s deep heritage in customer consulting and customer engagement, Razorfish deploys rapid-fire, omni-channel interactions in real time by deriving insights from data to inform the entire customer journey. Publicis Groupe merged Rosetta with Razorfish in 2014 to create a digital experience powerhouse that combined Razorfish's strengths in technology, media and user experience with Rosetta's customer intelligence and engagement capabilities to drive customer obsessed business transformation. 

With the new offering, clients will now benefit from increased customer understanding, customer loyalty and brand advocacy resulting in an overall increase in customer lifetime value. This will be delivered through a combination of customer insights, strategy and personalized customer interactions at scale for clients across every channel.

Built on a unique, insights-driven methodology, the Loyalty offering is centered around three core solutions of Customer Engagement Strategy, Loyalty Marketing and Engagement Ecosystem that span Market Assessment, Customer and Insights Strategy, Lifecycle Marketing, Experiential Marketing, Channel Management, 360 Customer View, Advanced Personalization, Ecosystem Implementation, and more. The offering strategy and framework will be led by David Worth, Razorfish. 

Worth commented, “Loyalty is not a program. It’s earned through the engagement a brand creates with their customers through the entire journey. The work we’ve done for some of the world’s largest brands shows engaged customers are five times more likely to be loyal to a brand and will buy up to 90% more frequently. This integration of leading capabilities from both Razorfish and Rosetta gives us the power to unlock substantial growth and revenue streams for clients.” 

##About Razorfish

Motivated and inspired by what's next, Razorfish helps its clients navigate the unknown, drive change and transform business. One of the pioneers of marketing in the digital age, Razorfish has a unique blend of technology, creativity and media at its core. The agency’s world class capabilities in strategic consulting, experience design, brand building, technology platforms, data services, retail/commerce and media services enable transformational work for clients including Citigroup, McDonald’s, Mercedes-Benz USA, Microsoft, Nike China, Unilever and Uniqlo. Razorfish’s team of 3000+ experts span 25 regions, including Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United States.
 
Razorfish is part of the Publicis.Sapient platform. For more information, visit (link: http://www.razorfish.com text: Razorfish.com target: _blank), like us on (link: https://www.facebook.com/Razorfish text: Facebook target: _blank) or follow us on (link: https://twitter.com/Razorfish text: Twitter target: _blank), (link: http://weibo.com/ text: Weibo target: _blank) and (link: https://www.instagram.com/razorfish/ text: Instagram target: _blank).

Razorfish. Here for tomorrow.<sup>&trade;</sup>

----

Contact_Name: brittany-slattery
