Title: How to Build Better eDetailing and eSampling

----

metadescription: The two greatest challenges for pharmaceutical marketers  are getting HCPs to understand our products and helping them become  comfortable with how the products work so they become part of their  ongoing treatment regimen.

----

Subtitle: 

----

Location: 

----

Date: 2013-10-22

----

Text: The two greatest challenges for pharmaceutical marketers  are getting HCPs to understand our products and helping them become  comfortable with how the products work so they become part of their  ongoing treatment regimen. For decades the dynamic duo of detailing and  sampling has served that purpose admirably. 

For quite some time, most of us have reduced detailing and sampling  in response to growing profit and organizational pressures. However,  cost-efficient methods of performing the same roles have emerged and  eDetailing and eSampling have become common alternative solutions to our  continued need for HCPs to understand and to be comfortable with our  products. But something crucial has been lost.
<h3>What&rsquo;s Been Lost?</h3>

What we&rsquo;re missing today is the human touch—that unique personalized  understanding of HCPs that serves up well-crafted messages to the right  HCP, in the right way to provide that extra comfort with your product.

Understandably, the human component may have been lost because  eDetailing and eSampling are data-driven, technology-based solutions  that can economically replace, to a degree, the personal interaction of  the sales rep. However, these tactics can too easily become faceless  communications—or at their worst, spam.
<h3>What&rsquo;s a Marketer to Do?</h3>

However, not all is lost. You can transform the impersonal nature of  eDetailing and eSampling by harnessing information about your target  HCPs to make your non-personal marketing more personal. The good news?  You probably have what you need right at hand. The bad news? It&rsquo;s  probably sitting around gathering dust.

The top three things you can do to make eDetailing and eSampling work for you are:

1. Put your data to work
2. Remember, <em>Service with a Smile</em>
3. Start with a KISS

<h3>Put Your Data to Work</h3>

Start by realizing that not all HCPs are the same. You have target  groups with distinct points of view, concerns and hurdles to overcome.  Recognize that and put the power of your data and your experience to  work for you. Get insights. Take your qual and quant research and  identify the mindset of those key HCP targets:


- What do they like?
- Dislike?
- What do they believe?
- What won&rsquo;t they believe?


If custom research isn&rsquo;t available, that&rsquo;s not a problem. There is a  lot of publicly available data on healthcare professions, and you&rsquo;ll be  surprised at the quality of available data you are able to leverage to  help direct your programs. For example, consider using medical school or  average patient volume at the clinic to get insights into your target  groups or consider creative cuts of your syndicated data.

Whether you have extensive data or limited data, now is the time to  gather your information together and make it work harder for you.

So how do you put your data to work? Knowing your call plans and your  deciling is a start. Even with limited access to data on your HCPs, you  can provide a more personalized experience within your eDetail. For  instance, if all you know about your HCPs is their specialty, then  consider breaking down and personalizing your communications for each  specialty, tailoring the messaging to provide information that is  compelling and relevant to their distinct perspective. Even with limited  data you can drive deeper engagement for each of your target groups.

If you have access to more data, then you can get even more creative.  You may have insight into how your reps historically interact with your  HCPs and how they&rsquo;ve used your marketing assets—emails, direct mail,  display ads, sites and marketing engagements such as conventions,  speaker programs, etc.

If, in addition to knowing your HCP specialties, you also have  insights about their attitudes and past behaviors towards the condition  and medication, then you can, and should, personalize your messaging  even further. For example, create eDetails using this approach by  integrating simple typing questions on the first page in order to  provide more nuanced versions with content tailored to the HCPs  preferences and past behaviors. Engagement can be further improved by  delivering educational content that HCPs can pass onto their patients.
<h3>Service with a Smile</h3>

Don&rsquo;t forget that part of the personal touch that&rsquo;s lost when the rep  is taken out of the equation is the sense of useful interaction or  supportive service.

Effective detailing isn&rsquo;t just presenting the right pages of the CVA.   Nor is sampling just the re-stocking of the sample closet.  Effectiveness is born from the give and take that helps you understand  where HCPs have questions as they use your product in the actual  clinical setting, how the samples are used, and how to answer their  questions. That requires feedback and follow up.

There are numerous ways to generate feedback about your  programs—either directly from your transactional data, or from asking  for additional feedback and leveraging it in additional value-add  contact with your HCPs.

For brands looking to implement a quick and cost-effective feedback  process, consider leveraging small surveys in your non-personal  programs—such as emails and websites. You can use the survey responses  to craft more personalized and compelling information to enhance future  eDetail experiences.
<h3>Start with a KISS</h3>

KISS, as in KEEP IT SIMPLE STUPID. Nothing succeeds like success.  Starting small and getting a proof of concept will give you the learning  you need to prove your case, and the opportunity to optimize before you  expand to scale.

As the industry continues to see reductions in our sales force  numbers, it has become increasingly critical to supplement personal  promotion with non-personal tactics that are cost effective.

How can you start small and move successfully from there? Try  starting with a small test that proves your marketing concept and  provides ROI measurement for your management.  It&rsquo;s not difficult to  target a small sample of HCPs based on traditional deciling, brand share  and category performance—and qualitative and quantitative information  leveraging rep insights. You can leverage several messages to the  different physician segments through channels that can both support  individual HCP tactics and data (e.g., email) and channels that only  provide aggregated data (e.g., paid search). Your ROI analysis can be  based on HCP-level tactical data tied to scrips. You&rsquo;ll be surprised  what you can do by starting small!

So keep it simple—and optimize and expand as you go to see measurable results.
<h3>Why is This Important?</h3>

Leveraging these three key lessons will enable HCPs to have a deeper  understanding of your products and greater comfort with prescribing  them, which will ultimately lead to increased prescriptions. Plus you&rsquo;ll  have created an invaluable tool, a flexible ongoing approach that can  meet a range of marketing challenges, and provide a cost-efficient  platform that can be evolved as you learn what works and what doesn&rsquo;t.<br />
	If you haven&rsquo;t already, it&rsquo;s time to start thinking about rebuilding  your approach to eSampling and eDetailing to create more personalized  touch points with HCPs. It can be as easy as 1, 2, 3.

----

About_rosetta: 

----

Contact_name: 

----

Source_name: PM360

----

Source_url: http://www.pm360online.com/how-to-build-better-edetailing-and-esampling/